#Lesson 4: Abstraction

##New Keywords:

 - `abstract`
 - `extends`

"An abstraction denotes the essential characteristics of an object that
distinguish it from all other kinds of objects and thus provide crisply defined
conceptual boundaries relative to the perspective of the viewer."

##Abstract Classes

*An abstract class cannot be instanciated, but rather, _child classes_ can be
extended from the abstract class.*

Abstract classes are typically used as a means to organize a project.  You
can't create an object from an abstract class. Instead, a child class extends
an abstract class, and then an object can be instanciated from the child class.

The child class *must* implement all of the abstract methods listed in the
_parent class_. PHP doesn't use abstract properties, only methods, so you can
signify an abstract property, but PHP doesn't force you to use it in the
implementing classes.

One declares an class as abstract by using the `abstract` keyword on both the
class, and any abstract methods must also use the `abstract` keyword.

Private methods cannot be declared as abstract, only public or protected
methods.

###Example:

```php
<?php
abstract class APerson {
  abstract public function getName();
  abstract public function setName($name);

  public function sayHi() {
      echo "Hi.\n";
  }
}
```

Abstract classes can have have concrete methods defined. This allows for
classes that only partially need to be implemented by a derived class. In the
example above, the `sayHi` concrete method will be availble to classes that
extend the `APerson` class

If you fail to implement all of the abstract methods outlined in the abstract
class in a child concrete class, PHP will throw an error.

Remember that abstract methods are only declarations, and that concrete methods
methods must conatin a function body whereas abstract methods must not.

PHP will throw an error if:

 - a method in the abstract class isn't implemented in a derived class.
 - an implemented method doesn't abide by its signature (parameters)
 - the method is of a different visibility than specified

We can extend an abstract into a concrete class by using the `extends` keyword:

```php
<?php
class CPerson extends APerson {
  public function getName() {

  }

  public function setName($name) {

  }

  // Other functions not declared in the abstract class.
  public function otherFunc() {

  }
}
```

##Examples in Drupal:

In `includes/database.inc`, Drupal defines a abstract `DatabaseConnection` class that
extends the PDO class that comes with the PHP PDO extension for it's own
purposes. This abstract class contains many concrete methods as well as
abstract methods.

Different supported databases each extend this `DatabaseConneciton` class and
then have access to the augmented PDO class, with inherited methods available.
These supported databases then implement the abstract methods declared in the
DatabaseConneciton class as they unique to a given database.

For instance, within the `DatabaseConneciton` class an abstract `queryRange`
function is declared. The implementations of this abstract method differ from
MySQL to PostgreSQL as the syntax for range queries differs between the two
databases.

##Exercise:

 - Create an abstract class out of the Person class from lesson 2.
 - Create a concrete class that extends the abstract class.
 - Instanciate an object from the concrete class.
 - Set the name of the person object, and then echo it back out.
