#Lesson 6: Interfaces

##New Keywords:

 - `interface`
 - `implements`
 - scope resolution operator `::`

Interfaces closely resemble abstract classes, but cannot contain concrete
methods or properties. In order to create an interface, use the `interface`
keyword.

```php
<?php

interface IPerson {
  public function getName();
  public function setName($name);
}
```

You can then implement an interface with another class by using the
`implements` keyword. Just as concrete classes can contain additional
properties and methods to augment an abstract class, so to can they augment
interfaces.

```php
<?php

class Person implements IPerson {
  private $name;

  function getName() {
    return $this->name
  }

  function setName($name) {
    $this->name = $name;
  }

  function __construct($name) {
    $this->setName($name);
  }

  function sayHi() {
    echo "Hi.\n";
  }
}
```

###Constants

You can't use variables inside of an interface, but you can use constants.

```php
<?php

interface IDB {
  const HOST='example.com';
  const USER='root';
  const PASSWORD='root';
  const DB='allthedata';

  function connString();
}
```

Those constants can be accessed via the scope resolution operator `::` inside
of an implementing class. For example:

```php
class SqlDb implements IDB {
  private $host = IDB::HOST;

  function connString() {
    echo $this->host;
  }
}
```

###Typing Data
When a client class declares a method that uses an object, we can use type
hinting to ensure that that the method is passed the correct object.

Given our previously defined `IPerson` interface, and `Person` concrete class,
we can define a Client class that does something with a Person object, for
example we can print their name.

It would be nice if we could ensure that the method in the client class that
prints the name is passed a Person object. However, we want to type hint to say
that we can use any object that implements the IPerson interface rather than
limit it to a specific implementation of the interface.

When we type hint, we can specify an interface, and a instance of an
implementing class will still pass the type hint. Consider the following:

```php
<?php

class Client {
  function __construct() {
    $person = new Person();
    $this->printName($person);
  }

  function printName(IPerson $person) {
    echo $person->getName();
  }
}
```

In this example, even though we've passed a `Person` object to `printName` the
and we've specified that `printName` should be passed an `IPerson`, the type
hint passes because the `Person` object is from a class that implements the
`IPerson` interface. In the case that we created another class, lets just say
`WeirdPerson`, we could still pass an instance of that object to `printName` as
well since so long as the `WeirdPerson` class implements the `IPerson`
interface.

###Drupal Examples:
Drupal's entities are a great place to look at interfaces. Inside of
`includes/entity.inc` a `DrupalEntityControllerInterface` is defined.

This interface allows for a developer wishing to create a custom entity
controller to do so simply by adhering to the interface.

Drupal's own default controller `DrupalDefaultEntityController` implements this
interface and defines a bunch of concrete methods as well. For most developers,
simply extending Drupal's `DrupalDefaultEntityController` is more than enough
for creating custom entities, but for those using some sort of noSQL database,
creating a custom controller is available, it just needs to implement the
`DrupalEntityControllerInterface` interface.


##Exercise:

 - Create an interface to give a Person object from lesson 3 an email address and website.
 - Modify the concrete class from lesson 3 to implement your new interface.
 - Instantiate an object from the concrete class.
 - Set the email and website of the object, and then echo it back out.
